while civilians in Gaza continue to be
under attack Spain has stepped up its
pressure on Israel to abide by binding
orders of the international court of
justice what we are going to do and this
is what the statute of the court allows
is to intervene in the case supporting
the court in its interpretation of the
precautionary measures it is taking and
contributing all those elements that can
help it to apply them the crime of
genocide itself is the work of the
tribunal and as I have said on many
occasions Spain as it is doing with the
precautionary measures will support the
decision taken by the international
court of
justice this comes just a week after
Spain together with Ireland and Norway
forly recognized the state of Palestine
Spain's intervention here at the world's
highest court is seen as another
diplomatic setback for Israel 5 months
since South Africa filed its case based
on the genocide convention Israel has
yet to comply with binding measures
ordered by the court Spain has also
urged other EU members to support the
icj in implementing International
Justice the court has no power to
enforce its orders and relies on
diplomatic pressure on countries to
abide Spain as an important EU member
can do just that it will add a greater
moral weight and moral authority to the
to the to the case um it also increases
again the profile of the case publicly
and it demonstrates a stronger European
statement on uh the case and on the
proceedings against Israel in the icj
with regard to the their violation of
various rights of the Palestinian people
in their campaign in Gaza in the next
two weeks Israel has to report to the
icj if and how it has complied with the
orders to prevent potential genocidal
acts and stop its assault on Rafa step
fasten Al jazer
the make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer